claim that non students outside
agitators are working with the students
in the building and that is why they
called in the police the police
department and the mayor of New York
Eric
Adams held a press conference earlier
today where they talked about this as
well uh they said that they believed
that people involved were not students
and could be Danger
to the people in on campus and because
they are not uh affiliated with the
campus are breaking the law and they
listed numerous charges that they were
going to uh attempt to charge them with
if they were there they appealed to the
parents of the students actually asking
them to call their students and talk to
the students who are on the campus
warning that they could be criminally
charged uh no longer just with
trespassing but with uh breaking and
entering and other charges like that
this is what they say they wanted to get
the students out of the way but when you
talk to people on the sidelines here
that ran into some teachers who were
huddled around a radio listening to a
live broadcast from students inside the
campus and the teachers the professors
were horrified that the students uh that
the that the administration had called
the police in they are not buying that
they say these are our students those
are the students they're going after uh
so they were very concerned and came out
specifically to Bear witness to What's
Happening Here along with a lot of uh
young people that we see here um but
also it's interesting a lot of people
are really afraid to talk to us you
notice a lot of young people and the
demonstrators are wearing masks we don't
know how many are students there's a lot
of student housing around here and even
people who go to school at Columbia
aren't being allowed back on the campus
right now because of the lockdown
situation and the students who are on
campus were advised to stay in their
dormitories and not come out uh in the
runup to this clearly the University was
prepping everyone for this Mass takeover
by the police Kristen do stay with us as
we update our viewers who might just be
joining us on what's been happening
these really important developments at
Columbia University in New York this is
Al daer and you are watching live
pictures from Columbia University where
in the past uh 45 minutes we have seen
police officers moving into climbing up
and entering through a window at the
historic Hamilton Hall in Columbia
University that's where a group of
students we don't know how many exactly
but a group of students barricaded
themselves inside Hamilton Hall on
Monday evening to continue to protest
against Israel's war on Gaza they said
that they had renamed Hamilton Hall hind
Hall after the six-year-old Palestinian
girl in Gaza who was killed by Israeli
forces while on the phone with emergency
paramedics begging them to come and save
her and whose phone call went viral
around the world there is a heavy police
presence at Columbia University after
University authorities called police uh
saying that they were agitated who had
infiltrated this protest let's bring our
correspondent Kristen salumi back in she
is one of two correspondents that we
have outside Columbia University at
different points um outside the
university covering this ongoing
situation for us and Kristen you know
you were telling us about the university
statement saying that there that there
are agitators and our correspondent
today a boy was telling earlier that you
know she's been speaking to many
protesters over the course of days of
reporting as you have for you it's been
weeks now uh covering these protests in
Colombia and they say you know that
these claims of infiltrators is simply
not true and what's been really
interesting not just at Colombia but
other universities Across America is
that students themselves are being
charged students and professors
themselves are being charged with
trespassing which they say is an
absolutely bizarre charge uh trespassing
somewhere where you go or you work
[Music]
yeah that's right and Columbia
University of course has this long
history of student demonstrations in the
very same Hall where the students uh are
being arrested where they uh took over
the building in 1968 demonstrators did
the same thing there uh so they see this
as continuing a tradition and happened
again with the apartheid in South Africa
they were demonstrations at the same
spot so and and Columbia University has
a law school it's the home to the night
First Amendment
Institute uh and the faculty from the
law school and the night First Amendment
Institute have all come out on the side
of the demonstrators saying that you
know they've been peaceful especially
when the first arrest came along uh it
was you know a peaceful encampment where
people were
up and by the police department's own
statements they themselves said that the
demonstrators had not done anything
violent per se so uh from within the
campus you have on the one hand the
administration and the Board of Trustees
who uh clearly are under pressure uh
from leaders of the city and the state
and the federal government to clamp down
on this and get it under control but
within the Colombia community I'm not
saying all faculty members support the
demonstrators but certainly there has
been a majority of uh just by the Senate
vote that was taken this uh faculty
Senate vote uh was very critical of the
fact that police were used to handle a
situation the University faculty see
this as their Community as their
students this is a teachable moment many
of them will say uh when they can uh you
know encourage disc discussions and
debate and the expression of free speech
yeah and yet it was just a blanket
shutdown so ABS a lot of feeling that
the negotiations haven't been in good
faith but you know Kristen I think we've
seen since the war on Gaza began
certainly before but it's been
heightened since the war on Gaza began
that the exception to free speech even
at universities seems to be on Palestine
well I don't recall any arrests during
the South African apartheid devest
movement uh there you know it this
really uh this really seemed to trigger
a response not only here at Colombia but
elsewhere and uh there's a lot of
sympathy for uh the Israel and for uh
what happened there there's a lot of
um you know strong feelings when Israel
is threatened uh people here have family
there there's a lot of connections
between Israel and New York in
particular so there is sympathy there um
but there's also growing awareness of
what's happening in Gaza and the
pictures that have been coming from that
conflict and uh again this is a an
educational setting where people are
learning about what's happening in the
world and if you're being taught about
human rights if you're being taught
about Free Speech uh people are saying
why can't we talk about this why can't
we use our voices to to protest and
that's what we've been seeing happening
and and Kristen you know to your point
about a part A our correspondent Rob
McBride who's been covering the protests
at the University of California Los
Angeles he interviewed a history
Professor a few hours ago live in one of
our bulletins and he was talking about
how in all of his years of being part of
protests in America including against
aparted he hasn't seen something like
this so that that was really interesting
you've covered the protests in America
since the war on Gaza began and
especially um the ones at universities
Kristen Ju Just lastly how would you
characterize what you're seeing tonight
at Colombia in the context of what's
been happening over the last few weeks
you know it's a great question
because the demonstrations in New York
started from not long after October 7th
uh there has actually been weekly in
some cases
multi uh many days a week there have
been protests where people have come to
the streets but they weren't getting
covered they weren't getting a lot of
attention unless they were a big one
where they shut down Grand Central and
people were arrested Ed there um or they
shut down the Brooklyn Bridge when those
things would happen they would get some
attention they would get some coverage
but people were coming out almost daily
as the the the longer the war has
continued the more frequent those
demonstrations became but again the the
media sort of lost interest it wasn't
until the campus the college students
got involved that uh that
they started paying attention again so
while people can be
critical of the students and their
methods and I've heard that actually
from some of the Jewish students I spoke
to here at
Colombia actually had some sympathy for
the plight of Gins in this conflict but
they felt that the students were going
about it wrong or they didn't like the
chant of inata or from the river to the
Sea because they felt like it was
directed at them and it was
uh it was anti-semitic in nature yeah
even though the from the river to the
sea is actually from Benjamin start
happening here it wasn't
getting right the different different
sides of this debate see it differently
but here in some circles any if you say
inata if you say from the river to the
sea that is seen as
anti-zionist um and not more than
anti-zionist it's it's
anti- Semitic by by some people here and
I've seen some really great debates on
the sidelines here of people debating
that yeah uh but but clearly that uh got
attention and got the media back uh back
to covering the story when the college
campuses got involved yeah Kristen thank
you so much for that for now that's
Kristen salumi joining us live from
Columbia University in New York we're
going to go back to our other
correspondent who's live at a different
location at Colombia TOA Bo um is
joining us and TOA can you if you can
just you know uh bring us up to dat with
what's been happening there over the
past hour and you know we're watching
the live shot of that window of the
historic Hamilton Hall with police
inside students have barricaded
themselves inside and we don't know
what's happening there you talk to over
this
all right they call back in talk well
certainly we're right here across from
where the window where at least 50
police officers went inside Hamilton
Hall it's not clear what is happening
there right now but uh student
protesters have been outside uh in a way
protecting those who are inside who have
barricaded themselves inside Hamilton
Hall they rename that Hall after a
Palestinian girl the six-year-old
Palestinian girl that was killed by the
military and then uh just about an hour
ago we started seeing massive police
freshen they started coming towards
where we are from the northern side of
the Avenue and from the southern part of
the Avenue and then just dozens and
dozens of police officers came here let
me bring you in and we're going to talk
to one of the students that has been
outside showing support for those who
are inside uh and he does not want his
name disclosed but he's been here all
day he's been following what's been
happening happen with the students all
day so what can you tell us is happening
inside what have you heard from your
your your classmates your other students
who are inside right so like you said a
lot of the students went in uh to
Hamilton Hall yesterday de occupied and
reoccupied it as hin Hall uh they were
there all day long all of us were hoping
that the administration would behave
like adults and negotiate in good faith
with the students and find a compromise
Find A Way Forward um to get these
students safely back to their classes
where they belong
um but a lot of us were very
disappointed obviously and shocked to
see the police return to our campus an
American institution where freedom of
speech and freedom of expression are
supposed to be prized um earlier today
you know via social networks we all told
that they expected the police to come so
we came out here um to to demonstrate
our support uh for for me personally for
the American values that I believe in um
and when we arrived there were students
kind of massing around the gates behind
me you see um eventually the police
arrived and started pushing people back
about 40 or 50 students uh went arm in-
arm and tried to block the gate the
police then came some of them behaved
like professionals others were pushing
and shoving and escalating the situation
they took a lot of those students away
in zip ties um and then eventually they
pushed the red out of the way so they
could bring in the vehicle that you see
um to my right uh that vehicle moved
forward to where it is now they used the
ladder system they probably could use a
normal ladder but decided that instead
to use that vehicle to breach the window
um into Hamilton Hall or hind Hall and
from there they moved in um what we're
told from inside there reports that they
used tear gas in an enclosed space which
doesn't seem tactically sound or
responsible when dealing with unarmed
student protesters have have you heard
from inside what is happening inside
because we cannot see anything from here
from where we are right now but maybe
you are in touch with other students
inside have you do do you know what is
going on right so from what we heard
from inside there were students who were
knocked on there was at least one
student who was knocked unconscious by
the police again that's the reporting
that we're getting from inside and there
was tear gas deployed a lot of the
students apparently are being brought
out um and in zip ties via buses to the
south of the campus um but it sounds
like the students were sitting there
they were probably expecting to be
arrested and were willing to be arrested
for what they believe in um which is
something that again we should applaud
here in America that's true courage and
there are those students who decided
they wanted to stand for what they
believed in and all these police
officers with all their equipment
knocking down the door to take them away
what of things that the New York Police
Department is saying is that the
students inside were infiltrated by
Outsiders that this is something
extremely
dangerous is this true I mean is this
something that has happened is just
students in there what can you tell us
about who is inside I want to go those
students who were sitting in classes
like the rest of us the people who were
in there right now to the best of my
knowledge are all students who decided
that they wanted to take a stand and
actually demonstrate leadership um for
the rest of the country and for students
around the world um I haven't heard of
any infiltration into the camps the only
thing that happened was sometimes there
would be some outside people who would
come and try to you know change a
narrative like there's a proud boy that
came in other people trying to uh spread
a different narrative but the students
were very responsible and be and they
behaved like very professionally and de
escalating those situations and
refocusing the narrative on Gaza as they
were attempting to any of these
narratives that are trying to spread
fear about who the students are I
recommend you speak to one of the
students if you get a chance the
Palestinian students or the Jewish
students who are arrested uh last week
the Jewish students are probably being
arrested right now and you can hear from
them what kind of motivation uh what
kind of movement they are which is
peaceful and there was no infiltration
from my understanding of any kind of
outside organization you as a students
you're being part of this movement of
this protest to shed light of what is
happening in Gaza to the war on Gaza to
the killing in Gaza what would you what
would you like to say to the American
public what would you like to say to
American politicians what would you like
to tell uh President Biden about what is
happening here right now right I I want
to start by saying I don't want to
distract attention away from Gaza which
is the real focus of all these students
here but personally as a student as an
American I'm horrified by the
decision-making process here this isn't
Moscow this isn't teron this is New York
City we should be able to protest
peacefully in order to talk to people
about what we have you know what the
issues we have with what's going on on
our campus around the world without fear
of our campus being militarized by
police and occupied and being pushed
away from our classes for no reason the
students there they demonstrated
incredible courage and they motivated
people around the country to do the same
and I was hoping that the administration
here would follow their lead and do
something constructive Unfortunately
they started bringing cops last week the
rest of the country followed their lead
brought in cops they were negotiating
constructively earlier in the week and
gave up on that I was hoping they would
move back to the negotiating table but
instead they decided to do this so for
everyone that grew up in America in
elementary school mle school and learned
about American values and history of the
American Revolution or any other thing
that you prize as American our values I
would say hopefully in the future this
doesn't happen again hopefully we
remember who we are and we stand up for
people who want to protest peacefully in
order to address something they see
going on in the world thank you very
much so we remain here right outside of
Colombia University just right in front
of the door we around 50 police officers
enter Hamilton Hall it's not clear what
went on there we just heard some of the
information that students outside are
getting from what is happening inside
but we are remaining here monitoring the
situation seeing the dozens and dozens
of police officers that have showed up
here watching how at least 50 of them
entered through that window probably to
evict the students that are currently
signed students have been facing the
risks of suspension of expulsion now
they're facing arrest so we're going to
have to see what happens next but we'll
be here and we'll we'll keep you updated
with the latest of what's going on here
outside Columbia
University yeah no doubt today is a than